# Unsupervised Machine Learning Approach for Tumor Prediction from Random Gene Expression Extracts
Predicting disease using machine learning is becoming a more demanding subject in the healthcare field. Supervised machine learning, which learns from data given has become reliable in recent years. However, the difficulty of acquiring the expensive expert annotated data needed for the supervised algorithms limits the ways we can utilize it in various applications. In contrast, unsupervised machine learning models learn from clustering unannotated data, which makes them more versatile, which means that they can use any data that is available. In this paper, we trained an unsupervised model and a supervised model with a dataset of random extraction of gene expressions from patients who have certain types of tumors: BRCA, KIRC, COAD, LUAD, and PRAD. We trained a logistic regression model and a k-means model enhanced with an autoencoder, so we could compare the results of both to properly assess the results of an unsupervised model. After finishing the program, we repeated the train and test process 5000 times, so we could collect the averages and observe the outliers. The supervised model had a median accuracy of 100% which isn't surprising considering the data was labeled. After training the autoencoder, the unsupervised model had a median accuracy of 51% in tumor prediction, which is impressive considering the challenges of using unlabeled data. These results highlight the potential of unsupervised learning models in disease prediction. This study demonstrates that with optimization, unsupervised models can be on par with supervised models, while not depending on expensive human annotations.
